****************
* Circuit
* CS 221
* 12/5/24
* Morgan Zabriskie
**************** 

OVERVIEW:

 The CircuitTracer programs takes in a circuit board schematic
 from the user and does a brute-search force to find the 
 quickest path from the starting point (1) to the ending point (2).
 It prints out the fastest paths to the user.


INCLUDED FILES:

 * CircuitTracer.java - the driver file
 * CircuitBoard.java - the Circuit Board class file
 * TraceState.java - the TraceState class file
 * Storage.java - the Storage class file
 * InvalidFileFormatException.java - file formatting error class file
 * OccupiedPositionException.java - class file for Occupied Position error
 * README - this file


COMPILING AND RUNNING:

 Give the command for compiling the program, the command
 for running the program, and any usage instructions the
 user needs.
 
 These are command-line instructions for a system like onyx.
 They have nothing to do with Eclipse or any other IDE. They
 must be specific - assume the user has Java installed, but
 has no idea how to compile or run a Java program from the
 command-line.
 
 e.g.
 From the directory containing all source files, compile the
 driver class (and all dependencies) with the command:
 $ javac *.java

 Run the compiled class file with the command:
 $ java CircuitTracer [-s | -q] [-c | -g] filename
    First argument:
        -s -- use a stack for storage
        -q -- use a queue for storage

    Second argument:
        -c --run program in console mode
        -g --run program in GUI mode

 Console output will give the results after the program finishes.

 ANALYSIS

 i. If a stack is used as the storage structure, one path will be
 explored until it reaches the end, a point where it is adjacent to the spot
 that has a 2 (depth-first). This is because the first element of the stack will
 be popped off the stack, then the program will generate 1 or more
 new paths to explore. Those new paths get added to the top of thes stack,
 then they are popped off and new paths generated from those points. The
 first path, which is sitting at the bottom of the stack, won't be popped
 off until all the paths generated from the second (or third or fourth, 
 depending on starting board structure) have been finished.
 When using a queue, every path will be explored at the same rate (breadth-first). The 
 program will look at the first path, then generate new paths from that point
 and add it to the back of the queue. Then, the second path will be explored
 and so on for all possible path options. Then, the program will get to the
 new set of paths from the first path, look at each, then generate new paths.
 Then the second, and so on. So each possible path will move along together,
 rather than finishing one and then looking at the next.

 ii. The total number of search states is not affected by the choice of
 storage structure. The same paths will be search using a stack or queue,
 the difference is how each path is traced through time. If there are six
 possible paths, both structures will search six paths. The stack will trace one
 path to completion, then the next to completion, and so on (depth-first). The queue will
 trace all paths sequentially, starting with the first path and adding a step,
 then the second path and adding a step, until all paths have been looked at. Then it
 will start with the first path and its children and add on steps to all children, then
 look at the second step and its children and add on steps to all children, etc until
 each path has reached an end point (breadth-first).

 iii. Since the search algorithm is going to find every possible path regardless of
 underlying storage structure, the solution will not be found in fewer steps using a 
 stack or a queue.

 iv. Using a queue, or breadth-first method, guarantees the first solution found is the
 shortest path. This is because you are stepping through all paths at the same time. So if
 one solution is found after taking two steps, you know that's the shortest path compared
 to the other possible paths that haven't found a solution yet.
 With a stack, there's no guarantee you've found the shortest path when you've found the first
 solution. The first solution is essentially random, and could be the shortest path or could
 equally likely be the longest path.

 v. Memory use is very different depending on storage choice. In the stack, you will
 have fewer items in Storage most of the time. This is because the stack is depth-first,
 and you will only generate 1-3 new paths each run through the while loop. In the queue,
 which is breadth-first, your number of possible paths that are sitting in Storage
 waiting to be reviewed grows larger with each step you take. Towards the end of the
 analysis, you will have many branches of the possible paths that you could take.

 vi. The Big O runtime for these search algorithms is linear because we visit each position once,
 and once each of those combinations of position + next position is explored, we don't revisit
 that position. N, the primary input factor increasing the difficulty of the task, is
 the number of open positions on the board. Even if 1 and 2 are very close to each other, the
 search algorithm is going to search every possible path. If there are a lot of open positions
 on the board, then the number of possible paths begins to increase, increasing the difficulty 
 of the search.


PROGRAM DESIGN AND IMPORTANT CONCEPTS:

 This is the sort of information someone who really wants to
 understand your program - possibly to make future enhancements -
 would want to know.

 Explain the main concepts and organization of your program so that
 the reader can understand how your program works. This is not a repeat
 of javadoc comments or an exhaustive listing of all methods, but an
 explanation of the critical algorithms and object interactions that make
 up the program.

 Explain the main responsibilities of the classes and interfaces that make
 up the program. Explain how the classes work together to achieve the program
 goals. If there are critical algorithms that a user should understand, 
 explain them as well.
 
 If you were responsible for designing the program's classes and choosing
 how they work together, why did you design the program this way? What, if 
 anything, could be improved? 

TESTING:

 How did you test your program to be sure it works and meets all of the
 requirements? What was the testing strategy? What kinds of tests were run?
 Can your program handle bad input? Is your program  idiot-proof? How do you 
 know? What are the known issues / bugs remaining in your program?


DISCUSSION:
 
 Discuss the issues you encountered during programming (development)
 and testing. What problems did you have? What did you have to research
 and learn on your own? What kinds of errors did you get? How did you 
 fix them?
 
 What parts of the project did you find challenging? Is there anything
 that finally "clicked" for you in the process of working on this project?
 
 
EXTRA CREDIT:

 If the project had opportunities for extra credit that you attempted,
 be sure to call it out so the grader does not overlook it.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------

All content in a README file is expected to be written in clear English with
proper grammar, spelling, and punctuation. If you are not a strong writer,
be sure to get someone else to help you with proofreading. Consider all project
documentation to be professional writing for your boss and/or potential
customers.
